Add January 2024 Newsletter (#1401)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/newsletters/2024-01-24-newsletter.md

* A large part of US-RSE’s success has been due to the dedication and hard work of volunteers. While we don’t want to see the community-driven nature change, we recognize that relying on pure volunteer effort is limiting. For this reason the two new staff positions of a full-time Community Manager and a part-time Executive Director were created. We are excited that Sophia Anyatonwu started on December 11, 2023 as our Community Manager and Sandra Gesing started on November 1, 2023 as our Executive Director.
* Three main activities and initiatives will be funded through the grant: The US-RSE Annual Conference, a Community Funds Program, and an Awards Program.
* Developing and maintaining a vibrant and functional community network requires infrastructure. To alleviate the struggles of the current process, we’ll invest in infrastructure for managing contact information for those in the network, facilitating networking opportunities between members, allowing people to choose their level of involvement in network activities, and communicating with members. 

> ## Community and Travel Funds program: Joint Maths Meetings 2024

Reviewer: "Maths"? :smile:

Reviewer 2: it's the UK version of "Math" :)

Reviewer: I know, I just get a kick out of it every time I see it.

Reviewer 2: I have a t-shirt that say "do the maths" on the back...

Reviewer 3: I will change to Mathematics :)

Author: Thanks! We fixed/changed in latest commit!

* Abbey Roelofs
* Alex Koufos
* Ian Cosden 
* Jeff Carver 
* Keith Beattie

Thanks to the other excellent candidates David Beck, Mahmood Shad, and Torin White for making the election a success.  All of them have helped to grow US-RSE and make it successful.

In addition, we want to express our gratitude to the three outgoing Steering Committee members, Nicole Brewer, Christina Maimone, and Sandra Gesing. Their decades of experience have been instrumental in advancing US-RSE, fostering connections within the broader research software community, and positioning US-RSE for a promising future.

<a name="news"></a>
# **Community News**

<a name="funder-series"></a>
## US-RSE Funders Talk Series: Ashley Sands
US-RSE is happy to be continuing its series of conversations with funders for 1) RSEs to learn about funding opportunities and review and other processes, 2) RSEs to ask questions of the funder, and 3) funders to ask questions and learn about RSEs.

> This talk in the US-RSE Funder Talk Series will feature Ashley Sands, Senior Library Program Officer in the Institute of Museum and Library Services, presenting “Research Software, Libraries, and Funding Opportunities”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This talk in the US-RSE Funder Talk Series will feature Ashley Sands, Senior Library Program Officer in the Institute of Museum and Library Services, a federal funding agency that supports work in and affecting the museum and library communities, presenting “Research Software, Libraries, and Funding Opportunities”.
```

This event will take place Monday, January 29th at 3 PM ET, 2 PM CT, 1 PM MT, 12 PM PT

Please join us in this interactive conversation. (If you can’t participate in the interactive event, where you will be able to ask questions and help funders understand US-RSE, it will also be recorded.)

Visit the [Funder Talk Series](https://us-rse.org/wg/outreach/#funder-series) for more information and links to past presentations.

<a name="member-spotlight"></a>
## Member Spotlight

> We are seeking content for a new section of the newsletter that will highlight both newer and seasoned members throughout the year. Please send Sophia Anyatonwu, US-RSE Community Manager, a summary (through Slack or email sophia@us-rse.org) related to one of the below topics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are seeking content for a new section of the newsletter that will highlight both newer and seasoned members throughout the year. Please send Sophia Anyatonwu, US-RSE Community Manager, a summary (through Slack or email sophia@us-rse.org) related to one of these topics:
```

* What you are currently working on/contributing to in the US-RSE community
* What you are actively planning on participating in this year as a member of US-RSE
* Past projects/work you have participated in through US-RSE that you are proud of
* Resources from the US-RSE community that you are starting to apply (or have already applied) professionally or personally

> * If you have landed a job through US-RSE's job board (a summary of how that happened and who was involved), or you helped someone else land an interview or job (this can be a collaborative piece if needed)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A summary of how you landed a job through US-RSE's job board and who was involved, or a similar item about how you helped someone else land an interview or job, perhaps in collaboration with that person
```

### January Community Call (Past)
**The January Community Call was on the topic of Python Frameworks.**

Speakers presented on best practices and experiences they have had with Python Frameworks.

<a name="community-manager"></a>
## Community Manager Office Hours
One weekday and one weekend time slot will be set aside each month for US-RSE members to chat with Sophia about membership matters. Members may also provide updates on how they are applying technical tools and other resources they have learned about from the US-RSE community. Additional information and relevant resources can be found on the US-RSE Slack in the [#community-manager](https://app.slack.com/client/T8ZT4PJSW/C06E5P599JN) channel.

<a name="events"></a>
# **Interesting Events and Opportunities**

## Community and Travel Funds Program

Part of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for US-RSE has been delegated for the [Community and Travel Funds program](https://us-rse.org/grants-and-awards/). Members of US-RSE can apply for funds for community or individual purposes for event costs, get-togethers, travel funding, and more. Apply today!

> ## Survey to understand how members of the research software engineering community consider cyber security when writing software

Reviewer: Minor nit: this looks really long when rendered as a section heading.  Maybe replace with something like "Call for participants in cybersecurity survey"?

Reviewer 3: I will use your suggestion.

Reviewer 3: I will change it to this: Survey to understand how RSEs consider cybersecurity when writing software

The [Sustainable Scientific Software Conference](https://s3c.sandia.gov/) will take place April 8-11 in Seattle, WA. This conference will help connect individuals and teams from the High Performance Computing (HPC) community that are working to deliver scientific software solutions in a sustainable manner. Sustainable software delivery spans the spectrum of software engineering, from design and development to DevOps, and software deployment platforms, from laptops to HPC systems.

## SciPy 2024

The [23nd annual SciPy conference](https://www.scipy2024.scipy.org/) will be held July 8-14 in Tacoma, WA at the Tacoma Convention Center. 

SciPy brings together attendees from industry, academia and government to showcase their latest projects, learn from skilled users and developers, and collaborate on code development. 

Virtual Conference Passes are available.

## JuliaCon 2024
[JuliaCon 2024](https://juliacon.org/2024/) will be held July 9-13 at Philips Stadion, Eindhoven in the Netherlands. Join the largest annual conference organized around the Julia programming language. 

<a name="reads"></a>
# **Interesting Reads, Videos, or Podcasts**

> * [Software and skills for research computing in the UK](https://zenodo.org/records/10473186) by Michelle Barker, Elena Breitmoser, Philippa Broadbent, Neil Chue Hong, Simon Hettrick, Ioanna Lampaki,  Anthony Quinn, and Rebecca Taylor 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Software and skills for research computing in the UK](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10473186) by Michelle Barker, Elena Breitmoser, Philippa Broadbent, Neil Chue Hong, Simon Hettrick, Ioanna Lampaki,  Anthony Quinn, and Rebecca Taylor 
```

* [Code for Thought podcast: ByteSized RSE: Web Development with Django](https://codeforthought.buzzsprout.com/1326658/14092409-en-bytesized-rse-web-development-with-django) by Peter Schmidt

<a name="outreach"></a>
# **US-RSE Outreach**

The Outreach Working Group is actively recruiting new co-chairs to take over its leadership! Volunteers are also needed to help with organizing workshops, birds of a feather (BoF), symposiums, etc. Roles span from organizer to reviewer to speaker and more. Here are some key projects that recent co-chairs, Miranda Mundt and Josh Teves, have led to benefit the overall US-RSE community:
* Strategically planning and delivering the first-ever US-RSE conference in 2023
* Organizing the submission of collaborative proposals to relevant conferences
* Providing awesome SWAG to members
* Assisting the overall US-RSE community with delineating between membership, communications, and outreach efforts

If you are interested in contributing to a US-RSE hosted event, please reach out to the working group via the [#wg-outreach](https://app.slack.com/client/T8ZT4PJSW/CNR6E0N75) slack channel or [wg-outreach@us-rse.org](mailto:wg-outreach@us-rse.org).

> The Funders Talk Series will host [Ashley Sands from the Institute of Museum and Library Services](https://us-rse.org/events/2024/2024-01-funder-talk-series/) on January 29th, 2024. Slides and a video of the talk will be posted afterwards. If you have suggestions for future talks, please contact [Dan Katz](mailto:d.katz@ieee.org).

Reviewer 2: since this was already mentioned earlier in the newsletter, maybe point to that mention?

Reviewer 3: I will most likely remove the Funders Talk blurb from here. However, I can add the last line with your contact information to the Funders Talk section of the newsletter.

Reviewer 2: ok, thanks

Author: Thanks! We fixed/changed in latest commit!

New guidance was recently released on how to create new [Affinity Groups](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/form-an-affinity-group) and [Working Groups](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/form-a-working-group). If you see an unmet need in the US-RSE community, we encourage you to create your own group!

As always we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization.

[US-RSE Working Groups](https://us-rse.org/working-groups/):

* [Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion](https://us-rse.org/wg/dei/)
* [Education & Training](https://us-rse.org/wg/education_training/)
* [Group Management](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/)
* [Outreach](https://us-rse.org/wg/outreach/)
* [RSE Empowerment in National Labs](https://us-rse.org/wg/rse-empowerment-national-labs/)
* [Website](https://us-rse.org/wg/website/)
* [Code Review](https://us-rse.org/wg/code-review/)
* [User Experience](https://us-rse.org/wg/ux/)
* [Mentorship Program](https://us-rse.org/wg/mentorship-program/)

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe alphabetize these all? It looks like the last 3 just got added at the end, instead of being put in order with the previous ones.

Reviewer 3: I will alphabetize.

Author: Thanks! We fixed/changed in latest commit!

<a name="jobs"></a>

> # **Recent Job Postings**

Reviewer 2: there are 2 more recent posts on the board

Reviewer 3: Thank you for letting me know! I will add these.

Author: Thanks! We fixed/changed in latest commit!
